2022 O3DE User Survey Report. (#2025)
o3de/o3de.org: content/blog/posts/2022-o3de-user-survey-report.md

- Workflow confidence: how confident they feel they achieved their stated objectives after completing the workflow
- Workflow efficiency: how efficient they feel their time spent on the workflow
- Feature satisfaction: how satisfied they are using the features within the workflow.

#### What Did We Find?

Results from the [final survey report](https://github.com/o3de/sig-ui-ux/blob/main/user-research/2022%20Q2%20O3DE%20User%20Experience%20Survey.md) suggest areas of improvement across all nine workflows surveyed. The two highest performing workflows are Onboarding and Look Development, which suggests the data-driven plan to focus on improvements for these two workflows has been received positively, enabling users to finish these workflows within a reasonable amount of time. Meanwhile, six workflows, including Actor Development, World Building, Multiplayer, Team Collaboration, Engine Extension, Packaging and Deployment, received lower ratings, which suggests these workflows require the greatest improvement.

{{< image-width src="/images/blog/user-survey-2022/survey-2022.png" width="100%" alt="Mean Ratings Across 3 User Experience Metreics" >}}

> We also asked users to rate their experience with the features within the workflow. Based on the data, the Help System across O3DE, the integration with the version control tools, the toolings (e.g. Terrain and Dynamic Vegetation) in the World Building workflow, the Physics System, and the asset management experience (including Asset Browser) received lower satisfaction ratings (ranging from 2.5 to 2.8). The UX performance of these features could be the reason that drove lower ratings in their designated workflows.

Reviewer: I was repeatedly misreading "Based on the data, the Help System, ...", as though "data" was also part of the list. So in my head I read it as "Based on all of these items". 
I think rephrasing to something like "The data indicates that <item 1>, <item 2>, etc." is more straightforward to comprehend.

```suggestion
We also asked users to rate their experience with the features within the workflow. The data indicates that the Help System across O3DE, the integration with version control tools, the tooling for the World Building workflow (e.g. Terrain and Dynamic Vegetation), the Physics System, and the asset management experience (including Asset Browser) received lower satisfaction ratings, ranging from 2.5 to 2.8. The UX performance of these features could be the reason that drove lower ratings in their designated workflows.
```

#### Using Qualitative Data to Deepen Understanding

> While this quantitative survey data can point to areas of overall improvement in O3DE’s user experience, we need qualitative data to inform a deeper understanding of the results to guide the future evolution of the engine’s user experience. During the summer months, qualitative interviews were conducted with 20 community members, focused on the five common workflows users employ when building their content with O3DE: Onboarding Experience, Actor Development, Look Development, Multiplayer, and Engine Extension.

Reviewer: Since the words are so similar, italicizing can make sure people don't miss it.
```suggestion
While this _quantitative_ survey data can point to areas of overall improvement in O3DE’s user experience, we need _qualitative_ data to inform a deeper understanding of the results to guide the future evolution of the engine’s user experience. During the summer months, qualitative interviews were conducted with 20 community members, focused on the five common workflows that users employ when building their content with O3DE: Onboarding Experience, Actor Development, Look Development, Multiplayer, and Engine Extension.
```

> Through these interviews, 138  issues were identified that either block or impact users from accomplishing their tasks. Using this quantitative data to pinpoint and prioritize areas for improvement  and more deeply understand these areas, SIG UI-UX worked with all of the other SIGs to improve these five workflows. You can find the issues tracked on the GitHub [2022 Walk The Engine Issues Dashboard](https://github.com/o3de/o3de/projects/15).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Through these interviews, 138 issues were identified that either block or impact users from accomplishing their tasks. Using this quantitative data to pinpoint and prioritize areas for improvement and more deeply understand these areas, SIG UI-UX worked with all of the other SIGs to improve these five workflows. You can find the issues tracked in [2022 Walk The Engine Issues Dashboard](https://github.com/o3de/o3de/projects/15) in GitHub.
```

> A development branch with the critical issues we identified and fixed will be released in late October, and we will conduct another round of O3DE UI/UX research using this branch towards the end of this year to verify if the improvements meet user expectations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In late October 2022, a development branch with the critical issues we identified and fixed will be released. Then, towards the end of the year, we will use this branch to conduct another round of O3DE UI/UX research to verify if the improvements meet user expectations.
```

#### What Other Suggestions Do We Have?

> We will continue to address the issues identified in this research to improve the user experience, simplify the onboarding experience, lower the learning curve, deliver greater efficiency to users, and otherwise increase confidence in using O3DE. Simultaneously, we also suggest the related SIGs delve into the following areas and improve their user experience holistically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will continue to address the issues identified in this research to improve the user experience, simplify the onboarding experience, lower the learning curve, deliver greater efficiency to users, and otherwise increase confidence in using O3DE. Simultaneously, we also suggest that the related SIGs delve into the following areas and improve their user experience holistically.
```

> 1. World Building is a critical workflow in the game dev cycle, yet the satisfaction and confidence ratings for this workflow in O3DE are low (2.95 and 2.18, respectively). The satisfaction ratings for the toolings (e.g. dynamic vegetation and terrain) are also low (below 2.8). 

Reviewer: I believe "tooling" already refers to a collection of tools. So you can remove the plural 's'. 

> "Tooling" is often used to mean a collection of tools, or a technology for accomplishing a task. 

(https://english.stackexchange.com/questions/534652/difference-between-tooling-and-tool)

Also capitalized Terrain and Dynamic Vegetation, and put it in that order to match what you did above. 
```suggestion
1. World Building is a critical workflow in the game development cycle, yet the satisfaction and confidence ratings for this workflow in O3DE are low (2.95 and 2.18, respectively). The satisfaction ratings for the tooling (e.g. Terrain and Dynamic Vegetation) are also low (below 2.8). 
```

2. Packaging and Deployment enable users to test their games with others on the designated platforms to gather early feedback; however, the tools we have today to support this workflow are not meeting user expectations. Users are looking for a one-click button that allows them to easily test or review their project on the designated platforms.

> 3. Physics plays a critical role in game development to help the game achieve realistic behavior and special effects, yet the physics feature in O3DE has dispersed entry points and UIs that make it difficult for users to learn the processes and effectively set up the various physics effects in the game, e.g. colliders, ragdoll, physics joints, cloth, etc..

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Physics plays a critical role in game development to help the game achieve realistic behavior and special effects, yet the physics feature in O3DE has dispersed entry points and UIs that make it difficult for users to learn the processes and effectively set up the various physics effects in the game (e.g. colliders, ragdoll, physics joints, cloth, etc.).
```
